# Movie-recommender-system
Today most people prefer watching movies and TV shows online and specially with COVID scenes now, we may find the actual TV gone forever very soon. Due to this there is huge demand for online content and huge supply for that as well. There is so much content on internet today that people are getting overwhelmed by the choices available. So now, people want content which is tailor made for them. This is where the recommender system comes in the picture to solve this issue by providing the end user with personalized content and services. Netflix, for example, has enormous collection of movies and TV shows. But not only that they also have a very efficient recommender system in place which is constantly improving to provide tailor made content to the end user which in turn makes Netflix one of the most used platforms. We will try to explore the various prediction techniques for a good recommender system.
Data:
The data to be used for this project will contain 3 datasets.
 The first dataset (ratings.csv) contains 26 million ratings from 270,000 users for all 45,000 movies. Ratings are on a scale of 1-5 and have been obtained from the official GroupLens website along with 3 additional columns namely Movie ID, User ID and timestamp. 
The second dataset (movies.csv) consists movies released on or before July 2017. This dataset contains 24 columns such as cast, crew, plot keywords, budget, revenue, posters, release dates, languages, production companies, countries, TMDB vote counts etc for 45,000 movies. 
The third dataset (credits.csv) used contains 3 columns cast, crew and id which gives the cast and crew information for all movies.
Algorithms:
We will use 2 algorithms here.
Popularity Based Recommendation System: This system as the name suggests will recommend the trend i.e. the most watched movies and TV shows at that point of time. For the sake of our project, we will feature a movie in the recommendation system only if the movie’s rating will be higher than 90% of the remaining dataset.
Collaborative Filtering: This system will recommend movies to a user based on his historic choices. It updates and recommends movies based on the user’s selection of movies from the last recommendation.
